# Proof of Concept scenarios

This Proof of Concept simulates a banking application. The business logic says that the end user must use an OKTA OAuth token to log in Subject_wl (front-end). The subject_wl will exchange this token for a more restrictive one (SVID-NG), generated by Asserting_wl. The SVID-NG is then used in authorization mechanisms to access end user data.

In this scenario, each component is a workload with a SPIFFE-ID running in a Docker container. The Asserting Workload is a trusted component allowed to mint new SVID-NG tokens. When the front-end application requires to access the end-user data, it stablishes a SPIRE mTLS connection with Asserting Workload, sending the end-user OAuth token. The Asserting Workload, by its side, receives the OAuth token, mint a SVID-NG and sign it with a private key sending back to Subject Workload.

The Middle tiers simulates generic cloud application components (e.g. load balancer), to exemplify the SVID-NG transitivity. In this PoC, when receive requests that uses SVID-NG, it first validate its expiration and signature. After that, the SVID-NG go through all middle tiers until reaches the target-wl where a full validation is performed, before authorizing the access to user data. First step is the validation of the SVID-NG signature(s) and mandatory claims. Then, target-wl contacts asserting-wl introspect endpoint to retrieve a ZKP of a valid OAuth token behind given SVID-NG. Finally, target-wl validates received proof and return user data.


During the nested token scheme development, three test scenarios were created to apply and evaluate each of the different constructions.

## ID-mode
The workloads uses SPIRE SVID private key to sign the tokens. The user OAuth token is exchanged for an ECDSA assertion, generated by asserting-wl (IdP). Each workload in the application adds new issuer claim with its own public key and audience with next hop public key. and its own signature.  
Together with the token, the workload forward also its trust bundle, allowing for identification and validation offline.

## Anonymous mode
The workloads dont use any IdP. This model do not offer identification of the workloads, but takes advantage of this by using a signature concatenation model that allows for token size reduction and fast validation execution times.
The resulting token is smaller than in ID-mode, as it remove part of the signatures to use as private key. Also, there is no need to send certificates along with the token.

## SVID-NG
The basic model developed in Phase 1 of the project. In this scenario, asserting wl mint a token that allows the delegation of user rights to a workload. The objective of this token (a.k.a. SVID-NG) is to grant that the calling workload have the sufficient rights to access the desired resource. 



As all these scenarios starts with an OAuth token and generates new tokens with restricted rights, the asserting-wl (IdP) have an endpoint that offer a Zero Knowledge Proof that it have a valid OAuth token behind the call.
